session 88 resume formate
session 89 mock interview

screening round-
tell me something about yourself
name experience

first technical round
1. you working as devops cloud support ,you must 
how to check cpu and disk usage linux
2. what steps you will take if app is not responsibg on server
3. difference between process and service
4. how do you analyzie logs in linux


self introduction
self confidence and energetic

thankuo so much giveing this oppurnity
I am anil choudhary from indore
I am devops engineer with hands on experience around 1 year working on production  grade application for australian based ecommerce client through delta 360 services.
my primary reposibilty has been to automate build and deploy processes,manage
cloud infrasture on aws and support containersired application running on k8s.
I worked extensivly with jenkins for CICD,docker for containrization and
teraform for the infrastructure provisioning.
I am also invlved in monitoring and  troubleshoot production issues using prmethus graphana and i work closely with developemtn to ensure smoth and reliable releases.
overall my focus has been on improving deployment relaibility,reducing manual effort and mainting stable production enviroment while continously learning devops best practices.
that all about me.
thank you.

2. tell me your roles and responsibilty 
   my key resposiblities include desidgning and maintainng CICD pipelines using jenkins and github actions and provisiong AWS infrastructure with treform and deploying and managing application on kubenetes using EKS, i configured nginx ,ingress and https with ssh manager stateless and stateful workload CU includng  DATABASE and support gitops based deployments using argo CD.
   Additionany i monitor production system using promethus and graphana,ensure stable and relaible applications releases

   final ans-production ecommerce application deployed on AWS for an international client.
   build and maintain ci cd pipeline using jenkins to automate build ,test and deployment workflows,containerize application components using docker and 
   deploy them on using kubernetes EKS managed ,manage kubernetes resources such as deployment,services,configmaps,secrets .provided and managed aws infrastructure using terraform following infrastructure as code best practices and infrastrucres as  code practices, worked with core aws services including EC2 ,vpc,IAM,load balance and s3,implemented monitoring and alerting  using promethus and graphana track application and  health.
   assitant in prodduction issue like pod faliure and CICD errors 
performance issue.

session 90
1. walk me through your background and current roles and resposibilty
at delta 360 services
2.  what kind of client or project you have beeen working on
3.  what environment you have supported ,are working working on production as well or just deelopment and staging.
4. what was your role in the project life cycle?
5. which parts were handled by developers and which parts were managed by devops teams
6. what tools you use most frequently and why you have used them> if you are from starting to end in this project
7. why you used argo cd,what was objective to use argocd in your project,how you have implemented.what you have achive after using it.
8. what does production support in your role,as you mention production support in your project
ans-ensuring that live application running in the production environment remain stable available secure and they perform well,minimize the downtime and business impact
9. what is devops according to you
10 why you choose devops as career

technical in depth
11. how do check cpu ,memory and disk usage in a linux server
12. your application is not responding,what steps you will follow to troubleshoot and try to be structured with your approach
13. how will you check network port or command to use it
14. diff b/w process(node,java,python or app) and service(docker jenkind systemctl)
  process is a runing instance of a program , service is managed process running in the background

15. how do you analyze applications logs?application logs in linux
16. how you check error?
17. in what case you use awk or set?
18. how you check which  port service is listing on?
frre -h ,htop and  btop
19. if you are not using any argo cd or kubernetes ,it is only monolthic server ,how you troubleshoot it

session 91 

20. there is application running but not reponding to user ,what will be your troubleshoting approach
21. how you identify which process is consuming the high cpu
ps aux command,free -h,htop
22. how do you analyze applications logs in linux?
21. why we use journel ctl command(we can check complete logs details ,complete logs of systemctl services using it)
22. what permission are required for an applications to write logs  in directory
(read write permission to a file)
23. how do you check open ports and listening services on a server?
net state and ss and tail net 
24. can you explain CI /CD pipeline which you have worked on 
25. can you tell me which tools or area in which you are more confidently?
26. you wrote live project ,what kind of the reponsiblity you have there
27. what commands do you normally use to check the health of a linux server?
28. how do you check average load
29. how is the system service different then normal linux process?
30. where you usually check when application fails on linux
application logs sytem logs,service logs
31. explain how code moves from github to production in your project?
first the code commits and push happens in github,then CI pipelines triggers,
when the code is pushed or merged CI pipeline is triggered, and then github actions or jenkins start the inetgetartion
32. what actions cause your jenkins pipelines to start automaticaly
33. if pipeline breaks during the deployments how do you respond?how you trouble shoot it?
33. what problems does docker solve in application deployment?

sessin 92

34. how do you cordinated with the developers during the deployments in your current role
35. which tools or area do you feel confident handling independently
36. you have live production there wht kind of responsiblity did you have there
37. what linux level issues can cause high CPU or memory usage.(cron jobs are background task which can be heavy scipt running)
38. can you explain how code moves from the github to production
39. how do you logically divide a pipeline into stages
40. how do you manage docker image versions during your deployments
41. what problems does docker solve in deployments statement
42. how does a docker image differ from a running container
43. docker image and running container difference
44. what are the most important instruction you write in docker file?
45. how do ypu keeps docker images light weight and production ready?(distroles and multi stage docker file)
46. can you describe the conatiner related issues you faced and how do you fixed it?
47. can you describr your project which yu mention
48. what motivated you to focus on devops and aws?
49. what devops role are you targeeting next?
50. where do you usually  look first when an application failed on linux?
51. how does kubernetes help avoid downtime?
52. what advantages did EKS give you over running container directly on ec2
53. why was terraform chosen for the provisioning infrastructure
54. how do you stored and protect terafrom state files.
55. what role does graphana play in observability.
56. what metrics tell you that an pplication might be unhealthy
57. if kubernetes pods keep restarting,how would you debug this issue
